# DMML_Project_2023Fall
This is the project detail in the course Data Mining and Machine Learning taught by Kuangnan Fang at Xiamen University, which predicts the risk of heart attack.

Based on [Kaggle heart disease risk data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/iamsouravbanerjee/heart-attack-prediction-dataset), this study adopted a variety of machine learning methods and comprehensively applied deep learning models to discuss the prediction of heart disease. After balancing the samples, the accuracy was improved to about 70%. Complex models perform better on prediction accuracy and AUC values. Given the nature of heart disease, short-term lifestyle changes can lead to an increased risk. In terms of deep learning models, we propose three neural network models with room for improvement in accuracy. Propensity score regression revealed that "whether you are obese" and "whether you have diabetes" have a significant impact on heart disease risk. Logistic model analysis showed that cholesterol, diabetes and sleep time showed significant trend at hemisphere, continent and country level. Geography, Cultural and national factors make significant differences in heart disease risk, with lifestyle and culture in specific countries (e.g., India, Italy, Japan) significantly influencing cardiovascular health. This study provides multiple insights into the prediction of heart disease, and although there is still room for improvement in accuracy, it provides insights into the factors that influence cardiovascular health and makes some recommendations based on the conclusions of the model.

I got 94 in this course finally.
